Taken from http://www.short-fiction.co.uk/newstories/show_story.php?story_id=36166

Danny was one of those morning people that pop out of bed and look for that first cup of coffee to get all their systems working top notch.

This particular morning was not one of those days.

The hazy memories of the night before recalled the free rounds of drinks at a place called O’Horrigan’s with the dark murky shadows of hidden nooks and the bored housewives looking for a bit of strange. He barely remembered what he was drinking but from the taste in his mouth and the buzzing in his head he was certain it wasn’t merely ale.

Of course, young Danny was in the prime of life and his mortal being still had that ability of the young to rebound with great vigor refreshed with the energy of youth. Unfortunately, the same could not be said of his immortal soul which was already stained with the sins that were unlikely to qualify for redemption or salvation.

There was blood on his shirt and he checked all over to see if it was his.

He didn’t see any cuts or scrapes and he had never been prone to nosebleeds so he made the deduction that it came from someone else. Danny searched his memory for details of the night before but kept coming up with a blank page. Quickly, he yanked off the shirt and tumbled into the shower allowing the warm water to run over his abused body like it would absolve all his sins as well as his aches and pains. He heard the phone ringing in the bedroom but ignored it and continued to finish his shower distaining any interruption from the outside world.

The name of a girl flashed into his mind and he held onto it trying to match it with an image of her face. The red hair and the upturned nose were the first details and then he remembered her bending over in front of him and his smile looked back at him from the steamy mirror.

Then, he remembered the fight.

These days there always seemed to be a fight wherever he went. At first, he had the thought that it was just bad luck or that he needed to find a less violent places to relax. Now, he was beginning to realize the problem was really within him and that he was the cause of his own misery.

The girl was just an excuse.

He could see it all unfold like some silly segment on a poorly written soap opera with implausible dialogue.

She looked up at him with those bedroom eyes and pushed her hair back subconsciously perhaps thinking about his hidden man parts waiting for action with any available female. Of course, she could have been thinking about her shopping list for the store but that certain gleam in her eye told him just the opposite.

“Can I buy you a drink, darling? What are you drinking?”

She smiled and mouthed the words with accentuated lip movement and he knew right away she was drinking the same brew as he had in his hand. The lips were slightly wet with the touch of her tongue and he had some interesting thoughts about the delicate construction of her mouth and the deep secrets she stored inside.

He knew he should have backed off.

It was the redheaded girls that always got him into trouble. It was a curse to be sure that he didn’t understand because it didn’t seem very fair. Still, this one looked quiet and shy and he didn’t see any sign of a husband or a boyfriend in the immediate area so he decided to take the plunge.

“My name is Danny and I couldn’t help but notice you all the way over here. You look just like my sister Maureen and she was my best friend.”

The non-existent Maureen had been used as a ploy in other new friendships and he almost felt like she really existed because he had talked about her constantly just to strike up a conversation.

“Thank you, Danny, I was getting god-awful bored at this table. My friend went to play darts with the boys and I was even thinking of just packing it in and heading back home.”

Danny picked up on that right away and suggested that they do just that and he would accompany her to make certain she arrived home safely.



Less than ten minutes later the pretty redheaded girl called Mary was lifting her skirts like they were old friends and he was buried in her warmth with a speed that must have set a new record for a pub pick-up. They concluded their business quickly and that was a good thing because her boyfriend Mick was hot on her tail and came into view right after Danny zipped up.

It was Mick that threw the first roundhouse right and it caught Danny by surprise because he was of a mind that he could talk his way out of this silly confrontation with his normally glib tongue. The fact that Mick was already well on his way to paralyzing drunkenness played a major role in the spectacle but at least he was able to get in that hard pounding shot.

Danny made quick work of the man and Mary was down on her knees consoling her boyfriend with a dirty look to Danny who was now aware his presence was unwanted. It was Mick’s bloody nose that ruined Danny’s best shirt and he made his way back home with the measured tread of a man heading to the oblivion of a pickled brain.

He promised the mirror that he would never darken the doors of O’Horrigan’s ever again and made a vow to avoid all redheads no matter how obsessed he was with their company.

The telephone rang again just as he was ready to go out into the chilly morning air.

“Danny, is it you? This is Patrick at the garage. We need to discuss the plans for your Uncle’s wake and you should be here before noon to hear the details.”

Danny knew there was no Uncle and that there certainly was no wake unless it was his own that they were discussing. It looked like he was being tagged with a new project and one that would require his special talents. He lifted the floorboard and removed the pretty little handgun with the attached silencer and checked the rounds to make certain they were snug in their proper place. It fit like a glove in the small of his back and he knew that now he was outfitted to dispense justice according to the whims of his masters.

The garage was a dismal place.

The mud in the yard was caked and had probably been there in the last century with only the rain to stir it up. The inside was even worse with the trash of long forgotten humans still decorating the seldom swept floors and stacked up in the corners. There were two motorcars sitting side by side and they were outfitted with plates that were conveniently splattered to hide the numbers but it didn’t make any difference because they were also stolen from a different parking lot far distant from the town.

Danny didn’t like the feel of this operation.

It was a nagging headache that seemed to grow larger with each layer of misrepresentation. The first thing he noticed was that the usual middleman was nowhere in evidence and the man sent in his place was one of those “office wanks” that seemed to know it all but hadn’t a clue. He counted no less than eight members present and that was far too many for a secret operation. Besides, he had never been exposed in this sort of way before staying on the outskirts of the organization and just a name but not a face to be described later at some police station.

There was even a girl there who knew him and his family and that spelled big time trouble for Danny because it was a direct link to people he cared for and didn’t want involved in the day to day operations of the covert society. He didn’t even know her name but he knew her brother was a priest in the north and that he had been suspected of being an informer at an earlier time but was given a “second chance” because of his collar.

That was enough to make him want to back out of the place but it was already too late and he had to go through the motions without indicating his reservations about any of the others. He was one of the two gunmen assigned to the inside job and his target was a teenaged boy who was suspected of “running his mouth”. That generic accusation was hard for him to accept because it could mean anything from a “wise-guy attitude” or a “know-it-all” far short of the full-blown label of an informer passing inside information to the authorities. Still, it was not his place to question the orders but he fully intended to investigate as soon as he was released from the assignment.

The target’s name was Shawn Reilly and he was vaguely familiar to Danny but he couldn’t place him because of being sent into so many different places recently he had lost contact with his own people.

Now was the time to play the “good soldier” and follow orders without opening his mouth.

They loaded up into the two cars and Danny was in the rear motorcar with a pair of spotters to point him in the right direction. In a strange set of circumstances they didn’t see any soldiers or police and in turn they were not observed until they were sitting right outside the two separate buildings that contained the targets. He had no idea who the other target was and he didn’t care because he had no need to know.

In that final instant when the boy realized his end was near, he shouted out,

“You have the wrong one. I didn’t say a word with God as my witness.”

Danny put one between his eyes and double-tapped his left chest for insurance leaving the premises with no pause to look at his handiwork. It was one of those classic up close and personal hits that set his heart to beating fast and making him want to run as fast as possible away from the scene but walking calmly as if he didn’t have a care in the world.

When they met up outside the town, he listened to the other group explaining how it all went bad right from the beginning because there were a pair of constables keeping a sharp eye on the target making it seem like they had advance word of some approaching danger. Since they had no clearance for collateral damage other than the target, they aborted and Danny found no fault with that because he would have done exactly the same thing. It was then that he discovered the other target was the boy’s father and that he was an influential figure on the political scene. The man vowed to find his son’s killer and bring him to justice once and for all.

That was the worst news possible for Danny and he headed inland to hole up in the rural part of the county with some friends that had no idea he was involved in the Troubles. From that isolated place, he investigated the hit he had just completed and found out that the boy was not political at all and that he had never been involved in the struggle on either side. Apparently, he was just a happy-go-lucky lad with a big mouth and managed to upset some people in high places because of his ridicule and criticism of the organization.

Danny began to see this as a betrayal of his loyalty because it made him a tool for personal reasons and not an arm of the IRA used for non-personal reasons. The bitter taste of it caused him to decide to leave the country for a few years whilst he reassessed his options.